Ingredients:
1 whole chicken (or 6-8 chicken legs)
plain flour
Salt
Pepper
olive oil
4 bacon rashers (or pancetta cubes)
scallions, trimmed roots& stems
button mushrooms
garlic (about 5 cloves), finely chopped or crushed
between 0.5 to 0.75 bottles of dry red wine (although I do suggest saving more than 1/4 to drink for the actual meal)
chicken stock (or an oxo cube)
tomato purée (around 3 dessert spoonfulls)
1 onion, finely chopped
(1 shot of brandy- not necessary but you can if you want)
Shallots

herbs:
Parsley
Thyme
bay leaves
(Alternatively use a bouquet garni sachet which as you remember you accidentally ate last time I cooked)

First and most important thing: wash your hands.

If you bought a whole chicken (if it comes with liver/heart etc, that is not needed for this recipe), rinse it's innards out pouring water through the bottom and letting it leak out of it's neck. use a paper towel to dry the inside. Use scissors to cut perpendicularly to on either side of the spine, and remove the spine (throw it away or use it for soup). Use scissors to cut through the front side of the chicken through it's rib cage. Use a rectangular-blade cleaver to chop off it's legs and wings. Chop the thighs from the drumsticks. You should end up with: 2 wings, 2 drumsticks, 2 thighs, 2 halves of the breast.

place flour in a bowl, sprinkled with salt and pepper. Toss the chicken in the flour so that it is completely covered. 

Heat oil in a saucepan on high heat. Fry 2 pieces of the chicken at a time (with turning) until browned all over and the surface is caramelised, until all the chicken is cooked. Transfer the chicken to a casserole dish and cover it with a lid. Fry the bacon or pancetta then add it to the chicken in the casserole dish and replace the lid. 

Add the onions and scallions into the saucepan and cook this time on a medium heat, stir until browned, add mushrooms, garlic and shallots and stir (until it looks cooked). Add the wine and bring it to boil, once it's boiling turn down the heat further so that it remains boiling but not too quickly. Crush the OXO cube in your hand over the pan and stir it in, add the shot of brandy, stir in the tomato purée, stir in the herbs. Let the mixture boil (On the lowest heat that allows it to boil) for around 15 minutes and start preheating the oven to 180 degrees.

Add the contents of the saucepan to the casserole dish and replace the lid. Pop it into the oven and allow it to bake for a further 80-110 minutes (longer is normally better). After this duration it is ready to serve.

With plenty of time you have while it is baking, you can also spend that time cooking anything you think goes with casseroles/braises or stews e.g. potato for the staple and boiled green beans. Also you can use that time also to cook a starter.